Letter to the Editor.

Dear Editor(s)

The authors addressed most of the reviewer's questions and promptly described each change made in the new version of our manuscript. We also provide appropriate rebuttals for unaddressed comments. However, the authors are concerned with two points from the review by reviewer 3:
1) "It is important to add some extra data from Central America and the southern part of the USA", and
2) "Despite the paper being related to regional response to geomagnetic storms. Since nowadays there is data available from Central America and the southern part of the USA, It is important to discuss the longitudinal and latitudinal similarities and differences of the regional region"

The Authors' concerning come from:
a) Reviewer 3 is missing the fact that our study is not limited to geomagnetic data, it also includes ionospheric data sets. Therefore, additional geomagnetic data is not enough to extend our study, we also requiere the total electron content (TEC) near the sites where the geomagnetic data are registered.
b) Reviewer 3 is missing the purposes of our work, which is to isolate regional geomagnetic response at Central Mexico and identify its possible sources. Thus, geomagnetic data from distant regions would not modify our analysis nor our results.
c) Related with preceding point, contextualize our results would be a good practice. However, Central Mexico is about 500 km from the north and south Mexico's borders. Because of such large distances, any effort to compare our results with similar ones from USA or Central America would be purely qualitative, would hardly contribute to our results and discussion.
d) Reviewer 3 comments the availability of geomagnetic data from Central America. In contrast with Reviewer 3's claim, the Authors have searched for such data sources finding nothing, save the Magnetic Observatory of Chiripa in Costa Rica, which datasets are closed (i.e. not available). Hence, it seems that Reviewer 3 is not well informed or our searching task was pointless.

The Authors believe that points (1) and (2) do not directly evaluate the scientific validity of our work, neither evaluate the fact  that it is the first time this kind of studies are performed in Mexico. We also believe that Reviewer 3's comments (1) and (2) are not focused on evaluating the scope of our work and its objectives.

The Authors endeavored to respond respectfully to Reviewer 3 to try to show our views on points (1) and (2). However, the Authors would appreciate the Editor taking into account our comments regarding this issue.

Sincerely,
The Authors


National Autonomous University of Mexico Institute of Geophysics - Michoacán Unit
